150602_muonlab_coincidences/README.md, before:

# 150602 Muonlab tests

## Reasoning

prof. Frank Linde wants to use scintillator detectors to detect muons
passing through material. By placing a detector at the top and one at
the bottom you can detect the same muon in both detectors. However a
test resulted in to many coincidences between two detectors placed at
large altitude difference. We believe this excess may be caused by air
showers hitting both detectors but with different particles (not
detecting the same muon). This effect will become more important the
further the detectors are apart because the opening angle of the two
detectors becomes smaller.


## Tests

On 2015/05/28 a test with two muonlab detectors was started. Test
station 99 was used to capture the data. One detector was placed on the
roof of the Nikhef between detectors 1 and 4 of stations 501 and 510.
The second muonlab detector was placed underneath the first in the
HiSPARC office. The test ran until 2015/06/02 11:00 (GPS time).
Due to a power loss there is a gap in detection from 2015/05/29 9:00 until 2015/06/01 8:00.

Distance between detectors: ~4 meter.
Test measurement time: ~42 hours.
Total number of events: 1245.
Number of events in coincidence with 501/510: 293 (~24%)
Number of events not in coincidence: 952 (~76%) -> ~23 per hour


After this the second detector was placed on the ground floor in the
inner court of the Nikhef, close to the building, still relatively close
to being underneath the first detector. This test was started on
2015/06/02 12:00 and ran until 2015/06/16 0:00.

Distance between detectors: 16-20? meter.
Test measurement time: ~324 hours (without 16 June).
Total number of events: 1661.
Number of events in coincidence with 501/510: 1194 (~72%)
Number of events not in coincidence: 467 (~28%) -> ~1.4 per hour


## Data processing

The scripts here download this data, look for coincidences between the
muonlab events and the HiSPARC stations and then filter events in and
not in coincidence. A coincidence window of 2 µs is used to look for
coincidences.


## Results

The events with high pulseheights are more often in coincidence with an
air shower. The time difference distribution is also slightly different,
for events in coincidence the mean is slightly closer to 0. This could
be caused by inclined air showers, because then the distance between the
two detectors is less important because different particles are detected.

Commit message:

Add info and download for 3rd Muonlab test

150602_muonlab_coincidences/README.md, after:

# 150602 Muonlab tests

## Reasoning

prof. Frank Linde wants to use scintillator detectors to detect muons
passing through material. By placing a detector at the top and one at
the bottom you can detect the same muon in both detectors. However a
test resulted in to many coincidences between two detectors placed at
large altitude difference. We believe this excess may be caused by air
showers hitting both detectors but with different particles (not
detecting the same muon). This effect will become more important the
further the detectors are apart because the opening angle of the two
detectors becomes smaller.


## Tests

### Test 1

On 2015/05/28 a test with two muonlab detectors was started. Test
station 99 was used to capture the data. One detector was placed on the
roof of the Nikhef between detectors 1 and 4 of stations 501 and 510.
The second muonlab detector was placed underneath the first in the
HiSPARC office. The test ran until 2015/06/02 11:00 (GPS time).
Due to a power loss there is a gap in detection from 2015/05/29 9:00 until 2015/06/01 8:00.

Distance between detectors: ~4 meter.
Test measurement time: ~42 hours.
Total number of events: 1245.
Number of events in coincidence with 501/510: 293 (~24%)
Number of events not in coincidence: 952 (~76%) -> ~23 per hour


### Test 2

After this the second detector was placed on the ground floor in the
inner court of the Nikhef, close to the building, still relatively close
to being underneath the first detector. This test was started on
2015/06/02 12:00 and ran until 2015/06/16 0:00.

Distance between detectors: 16-20? meter.
Test measurement time: ~324 hours (without 16 June).
Total number of events: 1661.
Number of events in coincidence with 501/510: 1194 (~72%)
Number of events not in coincidence: 467 (~28%) -> ~1.4 per hour


### Test 3

Two additional detectors were placed on the roof, connected to the same
HiSPARC station, using a Slave unit. This allows the stations to check
for showers by itself and increase the number of possible paths for
muons to be detected. This test was started on 2015/06/18 14:00 and ran
until 2015/06/25 15:00.


## Data processing

The scripts here download this data, look for coincidences between the
muonlab events and the HiSPARC stations and then filter events in and
not in coincidence. A coincidence window of 2 µs is used to look for
coincidences.


## Results

The events with high pulseheights are more often in coincidence with an
air shower. The time difference distribution is also slightly different,
for events in coincidence the mean is slightly closer to 0. This could
be caused by inclined air showers, because then the distance between the
two detectors is less important because different particles are detected.
